# Visualization Challenge Datasets
The following datasets are available for this visualization challenge. Your visualization challenge entry may use either or both of these datasets.

## Single-Household Residential Water Use Data
This dataset consists of water use data collected for a period of approximately 3 months on the residential water meter of a single-family residence. Data were collected using a custom datalogger that senses the number of "pulses" generated by the water meter and records the count of pulses approximately every 4 seconds. Each individual "pulse" corresponds to a volume of 0.0087 gallons that have passed through the meter. Data for the entire time period were compiled into a single comma-separated values file that is available at the following link:

[Link to file here](https://usu.box.com/s/z5c09p77h5xdktot3cusugctl3ncwy5i)

## Multi-Unit Residential Building Water Use Data
This datasets consists of water use data collected for a period of approximately 1 month across 6 multi-unit residential buildings within the Living Learning Center on Utah State University's main campus in Logan, UT. These buildings share a hot water recirculation system, so the data consist of measurements of the cold water supply, hot water supply, and hot water return for each building. The difference between the hot water supply and the hot water return is the amount of hot water used within the building. Data were collected on 3 separate water meters and were recorded every 1 second. Observations consist of the flow rate (in gallons/minute) for the hot and cold water supply meters and the "pulse" count from the hot water return meter, where each "pulse" corresponds to a volume of XXX gallons that have passed through the meter. Data for the one month period were compiled into comma-separated values files, one for each building, that are available at the following links:

[Links to files here.]
